# PokeballGoLeague
A supervised machine learning project used to predict if user specified pokemon in "Pokemon Go" will be a competitive choice in the Master League PvP battle system

In the mobile game Pokemon Go, certain pokemon caught can have higher potential than others when used in the game. One of the most competitive aspects of this 
mobile game is the player versus player "Master League" battles. This gamemode allows the user to build a small team of 3 pokemon without a power cap- meaning that
higher level pokemon, particularly those that have the best battle statistics, are often chosen. Unfortunately, building a team that can perform well in Master League is
no easy task. It takes tremendous resources (called candy and stardust in game) to power many pokemon up to a competitive level which may involve months of "walking a pokemon" 
(this is how the game rewards players with candy and stardust) or even hundreds of pokemon catches. Therefore, having a way to tell which pokemon are worth investing the time and effort into
is more than useful tibbit of information.

This project is split up into 3 sections:
1. Data Generation:

Pokemon Go Master League has a "meta". This basically means that the majority of players use a specific subset of pokemon (the meta) in their battles because they often result in winning a match. This does not
mean that if a player doesnt use the meta they will lose- it actually means that there are now some datapoints for us to focus on! How does our pokemon compare to the meta? The current meta can be found at https://pokemongo.gamepress.gg/c/tier-lists/master-league-pvp-tier-list. These pokemon and important parameters are scraped and placed into "MasterLeague_Threats.csv" in data/processed/external. This file will most likely need to change ofen because the meta changes semi-regularly. Other important information needed to analyze how a pokemon ranks against the meta involves values specific to the pokemon: moves, base stats, is it a shadow form (means more attck but less defense), type effectiveness, combat power, level, evolutions, etc. The majority of this data is scraped from https://pogoapi.net/documentation/ and stored in data/processed/internal after the scripts "scraper.py" and "process_data.py" run. The script analyze_pokemon.py takes this information and calculates (effective) key battle parameters DPT (Damage Per Turn), DPE (Damage Per Energy), and TDO (Total Damage Output) by factoring in base stats, levels, Hit Points (HP), IVs (individual values; specific bonus stats when caught), available moves, special effects when a charged move is used (see data/processed/external/PVP_Charged_Move_Effects.csv), and STAB (Same Type Attack Bonus; a bonus that applies if the pokemon is the same type as the charged move it uses). Because of the way this is done, these battle parameters are only relevant within the datasets generated by and used to train the models within this application. Additionally, this allows for adaptability of the app when the meta changes or pokemon are added to the game.

2. Exploratory Data Analysis:

The dataset generated through analyze_pokemon.py has the following parameters: is_shadow, form, pokemon_name, level, IV_atk, IV_def, IV_sta, CP, HP, TDO, DPT, DPE, and the reccomended moveset. The goal 


3. Supervised Machine Learning Models:
   





















To use, run main.py updating lines 27-32 with the data of your pokemon. The machine learning models should be pre-loaded in data/models
the default entry of:
#------------------------
pokemon_name = 'Melmetal'
form_pokemon = 'Normal'
moveset = 'best'
is_shadow = False
IVs = [14,14,14]
LEVEL = 40
#------------------------

should yield this output:
Asking the machine if a [14, 14, 14] Melmetal at lvl 40 is viable in Master League...

--------------------------------------RESULTS--------------------------------------
     A Melmetal at lvl 40 and IVs of [14, 14, 14] should have a CP of 3570
  ... you could use this Melmetal in Master League at these values!

       Acording to my calculations a Melmetal at or above level 33.5
                 should stand a chance in the Master League
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
